[ALL TESTS] Update (#7324)
mlflow/mlflow: CHANGELOG.md

# CHANGELOG

## 2.0.0 (2022-11-14)

> MLflow 2.0.0 includes several breaking changes from the 1.x API, additional major features and improvements

Reviewer: Can we add some excitement here, e.g. one more sentence indicating that this release is a major milestone for MLflow that simplifies end-to-end MLOps workflows?

> Breaking Changes:

Reviewer: Can we call out breaking changes below features, since features are supposed to be the most exciting part of the release?

Reviewer 2: Moved

> Breaking Changes:

Reviewer: Can we also call out that support for Python 3.7 has been dropped & that MLflow 2.0 requires Python >= 3.8?

Reviewer 2: Added

> - [Recipes] Renamed `mlflow.pipelines` to `mlflow.recipes`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Recipes] Renamed MLflow Pipelines to MLflow Recipes
```

Reviewer: Can we introduce a separate breaking change item indicating that the `mlflow.pipelines` APIs have been replaced with `mlflow.recipes` APIs?

> - [Tracking] Remove deprecated `list` APIs for experiments, models, and runs from Python, Java, JS, and R APIs (#6785, #6786, #6787, #6788, #6800, #6868, @dbczumar)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Tracking] Remove deprecated `list` APIs for experiments, models, and runs from Python, Java, and R APIs (#6785, #6786, #6787, #6788, #6800, #6868, @dbczumar)
```

Nit: JS isn't relevant here, since users don't interact with it directly

> - [Tracking] Remove deprecated `runs` data from `get_experiment` REST API response (#6541, #6524 @dbczumar)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Tracking] Remove deprecated `runs` response field from `Get Experiment` REST API response (#6541, #6524 @dbczumar)
```

> - [Tracking] Remove deprecated `MLflowClient.download_artifacts` API (#6537, @WeichenXu123)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Tracking] Remove deprecated `MlflowClient.download_artifacts` API (#6537, @WeichenXu123)
```

> - [Tracking] Add support for experiment creation resolution and validation for `MLFLOW_EXPERIMENT_NAME` and `MLFLOW_EXPERIMENT_ID` environment variables (#6674, @BenWilson2)

Reviewer: Can we simplify this and make it a bit clearer what we fixed? I.e. `MLFLOW_EXPERIMENT_NAME` is now always respected even if the experiment did not previously exist

- [Tracking] Modify tracking server configuration to use `--serve-artifacts` by default (#6502, @harupy)

> - [Tracking] Introduce random `experiment_id` generation for `filestore` tracking server backend to enable threadsafe concurrency (#7070, @BenWilson2)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Tracking] Update `experiment_id` generation for `filestore` tracking server backend to enable threadsafe concurrency (#7070, @BenWilson2)
```

> - [Tracking] Remove `dataset_name` and `on_data_{name | hash}` suffixes from `mlflow.evaluate` metric keys (#7042, @harupy)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Tracking] Remove `dataset_name` and `on_data_{name | hash}` suffixes from `mlflow.evaluate()` metric keys (#7042, @harupy)
```

> - [Models] Remove deprecated `mlflow.keras` module and enable `keras` support within `tensorflow` flavor (#6530, @WeichenXu123)

Reviewer: Can we split this into a breaking change (remove keras) and a feature (overhaul TensorFlow flavor with support for TF Core)? I'll audit later to see if there are other items that should be restructured this way

Reviewer 3: > Remove deprecated `mlflow.keras` module

`mlflow.keras` is still alive for backward compatibility.
https://github.com/mlflow/mlflow/blob/master/mlflow/keras.py

> - [Models] Remove deprecated `mlflow.sklearn.eval_and_log_metrics` API in favor of `mlflow.evaluate` API (#6520, @dbczumar)

Reviewer: Can we also add a feature entry indicating that the `mlflow.evaluate()` API is now stable?

> - [Models] Change the default environment configuration for `spark_udf` loaded models to use `local` (#6640, @WeichenXu123)

Reviewer: This isn't a breaking change (it was local before). Can we move this to small bug fixes / doc updates?

- [Models] Change default to `virtualenv` instead of `conda` for Models environment creation (#6459, @harupy)

> - [Models] Remove support for `pyfunc` submission to `mlflow.evaluate` (#6670, @harupy)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Models] Require model inputs to `mlflow.evaluate()` to be specified as URIs (#6670, @harupy)
```

> - [Models] Modify `PyfuncModel` spec to support `conda` and `virtualenv` subfields (#6684, @harupy)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Models] Modify `PyFuncModel` spec to support `conda` and `virtualenv` subfields (#6684, @harupy)
```

> - [Scoring] Introduce strict format indicators for input datatypes for the scoring API and modify the output structure of returned values (#6575, @tomasatdatabricks)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Scoring] Overhaul the model scoring REST API to introduce format indicators for inputs and support multiple output fields (#6575, @tomasatdatabricks)
```

Reviewer: Can we move this to `Features` and introduce a new breaking change line item here indicating that we removed support for specifying fine-grained input formats using the `Content-Type` header?

> - [Scoring] Remove public APIs for `mlflow.sagemaker.deploy()` and `mlflow.sagemaker.delete()` (#6650, @dbczumar)

Reviewer: Can we briefly explain what these are being replaced with>

- [Scoring] Rename input argument `df` to `inputs` in `mlflow.deployments.predict()` method (#6681, @BenWilson2)
- [Scoring] Replace the `--no-conda` cli option argument for native serving with `--env-manager='local'` (#6501, @harupy)
- [Registry / Tracking] Remove `/preview` routes for Tracking and Model Registry REST APIs (#6667, @harupy)

> - [Projects] Remove the `use_conda` argument from `run` cli command for MLflow Projects (#6654, @harupy)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Projects] Remove the `use_conda` argument from `run` CLI command for MLflow Projects (#6654, @harupy)
```

Reviewer: Can we indicate what this argument has been replaced with?

> - [Projects] Introduce support for `virtualenv` within ML Projects and set as default environment (#6489, @harupy)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Projects] Introduce support for `virtualenv` within MLflow Projects and set as default environment (#6489, @harupy)
```

> - [Projects] Introduce support for `virtualenv` within ML Projects and set as default environment (#6489, @harupy)

Reviewer: Virtualenv support was already added in 1.x, this just makes it the default. Let's consolidate this with other virtualenv breaking changes and move to the top (see https://github.com/mlflow/mlflow/pull/7324/files#r1021181151)

> - [Projects] Introduce support for docker image creation with the `--build-image` flag for MLflow Projects (#7011, @harupy)

Reviewer: Can we move this to `Features`?

> - [Integrations/Azure] Remove deprecated `mlflow.azureml` modules from MLflow (#6691, @BenWilson2)

Reviewer: Can we tell users what this has been replaced with?

- [R] Remove conda integration with the R client (#6638, @harupy)

Features:

> - [Recipes] Add support for classification models to Mlflow Recipes (#7082, @bbarnes52)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Recipes] Add support for classification models to MLflow Recipes (#7082, @bbarnes52)
```

> - [Tracking] Add support to `get_model_dependencies` that enables downloading of all model artifacts (#6733, @harupy)

Reviewer: This is a bug fix, not a breaking change

```suggestion
- [Tracking] Update `get_model_dependencies` to download all referenced requirements files for specified models (#6733, @harupy)
```

> - [Tracking] Add support for defining `save_format` for Keras `autolog()` (#7123, @balvisio)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Tracking] Add support for defining the Keras model `save_format` used by `mlflow.tensorflow.autolog()` (#7123, @balvisio)
```

> - [Models] Add metric return structure and support for `custom_artifacts` to `mlflow.evaluate` (#7142, @harupy)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Models] Simplify APIs for specifying custom metrics and custom artifacts during model evaluation with `mlflow.evaluate()` (#7142, @harupy)
```

In addition to this feature item, can we add a breaking change item indicating that the old format for specifying multiple custom metrics and artifacts within a single function is no longer supported?

> - [Models] Modify behavior of defining and inferring a positive label for binary classification within `mlflow.evaluate` (#7149, @dbczumar)

Reviewer: This is a bug fix.

```suggestion
- [Models] Correctly infer the positive label for binary classification within `mlflow.evaluate()` (#7149, @dbczumar)
```

- [Models] Enable automated signature logging for `tensorflow` and `keras` models with `autolog` enabled (#6678, @BenWilson2)

> - [Models] Add support for defining `model_format` for `mlflow.xgboost` (#7068, @AvikantSrivastava)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Models] Add support for defining the `model_format` used by `mlflow.xgboost.save/log_model()` (#7068, @AvikantSrivastava)
```

> - [Scoring] Enable support for MLServer version 1.2.0.dev13 for MLflow 2.x (#7254, @adriangonz)

Reviewer: This is part of the scoring API breaking change - can we add the PR to that line item instead? https://github.com/mlflow/mlflow/pull/7324/files#r1021177724

- [Scoring] Add support for ragged arrays in model signatures (#7135, @trangevi)

> - [UI] Add visual, navigational and cosmetic upgrades to MLflow UI (#7177, @harupy)

Reviewer: Can we split this into multiple line items that are more specific about what we're introducing?

1. Run pinning
2. Simplified layout of metrics, params, and tags
3. Streamlined Run filtering and ordering

> - [R] Introduce support for `mlflow_search_experiments` to the R client (#6578, @dbczumar)

Reviewer: Already introduced in 1.29; can we remove this?

> - [Java] Introduce support for `search_experiments` to the Java API (#6579, @dbczumar)

Reviewer: Already introduced in 1.30; can we remove this?

- [Java] Add `getModelVersion` API to the java client (#6955, @wgottschalk)

Bug fixes:

- [Recipes] Fix rendering issue with profile cards polyfill (#7154, @hubertzub-db)

> - [Tracking] Add run_name when specified in start_run tags (#7228, @Cokral)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Tracking] Add `run_name` when specified in start_run tags (#7228, @Cokral)
```

- [Tracking] Fix an issue with conflicting `run_name` assignment if tag `mlflow.runName` is set (#7138, @harupy)

> - [Scoring] Fix SageMaker deployment client predict API and add tests (#7193, @dbczumar)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Scoring] Fix incorrect payload construction in SageMaker deployment client `predict()` API (#7193, @dbczumar)
```

> - [Scoring] Fix an issue with preserving `DataCaptureConfig` when updating a Sagemaker endpoint (#7281, @harupy)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Scoring] Fix an issue where `DataCaptureConfig` information was not preserved when updating a SageMaker deployment (#7281, @harupy)
```

# CHANGELOG

## 2.0.0 (2022-11-14)

> The 2.0.0 version of MLflow is a major milestone release that focuses on simplifying the management of end-to-end MLOps workflows, providing new feature-rich functionality, and expanding upon the production-ready MLOps infrastructure that MLflow is focused on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The 2.0.0 version of MLflow is a major milestone release that focuses on simplifying the management of end-to-end MLOps workflows, providing new feature-rich functionality, and expanding upon the production-ready MLOps capabilities offered by MLflow.
```

This release contains several important breaking changes from the 1.x API, additional major features and improvements.

Features:

- [Recipes] MLflow Pipelines is now MLflow Recipes - a framework that enables data scientists to quickly develop high-quality models and deploy them to production
- [Recipes] Add support for classification models to MLflow Recipes (#7082, @bbarnes52)
- [UI] Introduce support for pinning runs within the experiments UI (#7177, @harupy)
- [UI] Simplify the layout and provide customized displays of metrics, parameters, and tags within the experiments UI (#7177, @harupy)
- [UI] Simplify run filtering and ordering of runs within the experiments UI (#7177, @harupy)

> - [Tracking] Update `get_model_dependencies` to download all referenced requirements files for specified models (#6733, @harupy)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Tracking] Update `mlflow.pyfunc.get_model_dependencies()` to download all referenced requirements files for specified models (#6733, @harupy)
```

- [Tracking] Add support for selecting the Keras model `save_format` used by `mlflow.tensorflow.autolog()` (#7123, @balvisio)
- [Models] Set `mlflow.evaluate()` status to stable as it is now a production-ready API
- [Models] Simplify APIs for specifying custom metrics and custom artifacts during model evaluation with `mlflow.evaluate()` (#7142, @harupy)
- [Models] Correctly infer the positive label for binary classification within `mlflow.evaluate()` (#7149, @dbczumar)
- [Models] Enable automated signature logging for `tensorflow` and `keras` models when `mlflow.tensorflow.autolog()` is enabled (#6678, @BenWilson2)

> - [Models] Add support for native Keras and Tensorflow Core support within `mlflow.tensorflow` (#6530, @WeichenXu123)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Models] Add support for native Keras and Tensorflow Core models within `mlflow.tensorflow` (#6530, @WeichenXu123)
```

- [UI] Simplify the layout and provide customized displays of metrics, parameters, and tags within the experiments UI (#7177, @harupy)
- [UI] Simplify run filtering and ordering of runs within the experiments UI (#7177, @harupy)
- [Java] Add `getModelVersion` API to the java client (#6955, @wgottschalk)

Breaking Changes:

The following list of breaking changes are arranged by their order of significance within each category.

- [Core] Support for Python 3.7 has been dropped. MLflow now requires Python >=3.8

> - [Recipes] MLflow Pipelines is now MLflow Recipes - a framework that enables data scientists to quickly develop high-quality models and deploy them to production

Reviewer: Can we move this to `Features`?

- [Recipes] `mlflow.pipelines` APIs have been replaced with `mlflow.recipes`
- [Tracking] Remove deprecated `list` APIs for experiments, models, and runs from Python, Java, R, and REST APIs (#6785, #6786, #6787, #6788, #6800, #6868, @dbczumar)
- [Tracking] Remove deprecated `runs` response field from `Get Experiment` REST API response (#6541, #6524 @dbczumar)
- [Tracking] Remove deprecated `MlflowClient.download_artifacts` API (#6537, @WeichenXu123)

> - [Tracking] Changed the behavior of environment variable handling for `MLFLOW_EXPERIMENT_NAME` such that the value is always used when creating an experiment. (#6674, @BenWilson2)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Tracking] Changed the behavior of environment variable handling for `MLFLOW_EXPERIMENT_NAME` such that the value is always used when creating an experiment (#6674, @BenWilson2)
```

> - [Tracking] Modify tracking server configuration to use `--serve-artifacts` by default (#6502, @harupy)

Reviewer: This is more important than any other Tracking item

> - [Tracking] Modify tracking server configuration to use `--serve-artifacts` by default (#6502, @harupy)

Reviewer: This is more important than any other Tracking item; can we move it to the top? Also, 

```suggestion
- [Tracking] Update `mlflow server` to run in `--serve-artifacts` mode by default (#6502, @harupy)
```

- [Tracking] Update Experiment ID generation for the Filestore backend to enable threadsafe concurrency (#7070, @BenWilson2)
- [Tracking] Remove `dataset_name` and `on_data_{name | hash}` suffixes from `mlflow.evaluate()` metric keys (#7042, @harupy)
- [Models / Projects] Change default to `virtualenv` instead of `conda` for MLFlow Models and MLflow Projects environment creation (#6459, #6489 @harupy)

> - [Models] Remove support for the deprecated `mlflow.keras` and `tf.estimator` flavors (#6530, @WeichenXu123)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Models] Move Keras model logging APIs to the `mlflow.tensorflow` flavor and drop support for TensorFlow Estimators (#6530, @WeichenXu123)
```

- [Models] Remove deprecated `mlflow.sklearn.eval_and_log_metrics` API in favor of `mlflow.evaluate()` API (#6520, @dbczumar)
- [Models] Require `mlflow.evaluate()` model inputs to be specified as URIs (#6670, @harupy)

> - [Models] Remove the ability to specify custom metrics and artifacts within a single function call within `mlflow.evaluate()` by separating these functionalities to separate calls (#7142, @harupy)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Models] Drop support for specifying multiple custom metrics and artifacts from the same function when using `mlflow.evaluate()` (#7142, @harupy)
```

- [Models] Extend `PyFuncModel` spec to support `conda` and `virtualenv` subfields (#6684, @harupy)

> - [Scoring] Removed support for defining input formats using the `Content-Type` header (#6575, @tomasatdatabricks; #7254, @adriangonz)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Scoring] Remove support for defining input formats using the `Content-Type` header (#6575, @tomasatdatabricks; #7254, @adriangonz)
```

- [Scoring] Replace the `--no-conda` CLI option argument for native serving with `--env-manager='local'` (#6501, @harupy)

> - [Scoring] Remove public APIs for `mlflow.sagemaker.deploy()` and `mlflow.sagemaker.delete()` in favor of `MLflow deployments` CLI command `mlflow deployments -t sagemaker` (#6650, @dbczumar)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Scoring] Remove public APIs for `mlflow.sagemaker.deploy()` and `mlflow.sagemaker.delete()` in favor of MLflow deployments APIs, such as `mlflow deployments -t sagemaker` (#6650, @dbczumar)
```

- [Scoring] Rename input argument `df` to `inputs` in `mlflow.deployments.predict()` method (#6681, @BenWilson2)

> - [Registry / Tracking] Remove `/preview` routes for Tracking and Model Registry REST APIs (#6667, @harupy)

Reviewer: Can we move this above the `[Tracking]` section since it's an important change that affects multiple components?

```suggestion
- [Tracking / Registry] Remove `/preview` routes for Tracking and Model Registry REST APIs (#6667, @harupy)
```

- [Projects] Replace the `use_conda` argument with the `env_manager` argument within the `run` CLI command for MLflow Projects (#6654, @harupy)
- [Projects] Modify the MLflow Projects docker image build options by renaming `--skip-image-build` to `--build-image` with a default of `False` (#7011, @harupy)
- [Integrations/Azure] Remove deprecated `mlflow.azureml` modules from MLflow in favor of the `azure-mlflow` deployment plugin (#6691, @BenWilson2)
- [R] Remove conda integration with the R client (#6638, @harupy)

Bug fixes:

- [Recipes] Fix rendering issue with profile cards polyfill (#7154, @hubertzub-db)

> - [Tracking] Add `run_name` when specified in start_run tags (#7228, @Cokral)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Tracking] Set the MLflow Run name correctly when specified as part of the `tags` argument to `mlflow.start_run()` (#7228, @Cokral)
```

> - [Tracking] Fix an issue with conflicting `run_name` assignment if tag `mlflow.runName` is set (#7138, @harupy)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Tracking] Fix an issue with conflicting MLflow Run name assignment if the `mlflow.runName` tag is set (#7138, @harupy)
```
